README.md, before:

# Virt-A-Mate New Plugin Template

This guide assumes you are somewhat familiar with a Linux terminal.

The template consist of:

- a .csproj file
- a .cslist file (which is used to load the plugin in VaM)
- an src/ dir and template .cs files for the plugin code
- a template meta.json file

It is accompanied by a new plugin project setup script, and a plugin resource var packaging script (replacing the VaM package creator).

## Requirements

- [Ubuntu on WSL](https://ubuntu.com/wsl)
- [Visual Studio Community 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
- [.NET 4.6.1 Developer Pack](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=49978)
- [Virt-A-Mate](https://www.patreon.com/meshedvr/posts)

## Usage

First, clone (or download and unzip) this repository.

Create a dir with your creator name under the `Scripts` dir. You should have:

    VaM/Custom/Scripts/CreatorName

Copy the `NewPlugin` dir as well as the scripts `setup.sh` and `package.sh` from this repository under your creator name's dir.

Rename the `NewPlugin` dir to how you want your plugin to be named. Let's call it `MyPlugin` from now on.

Run the setup script from Ubuntu/WSL terminal. It substitutes your creator name and plugin name in the project files.

    cd <path to VaM>/Custom/Scripts/CreatorName
    ./setup.sh MyPlugin

The `<path to VaM>` is most likely something like `/mnt/<drive letter>/VaM`.

Finally, open the .csproj file in **Visual Studio** - and you're good to go.

## Multiple plugins setup

In Visual Studio, select the solution (the topmost item) in the Solution Explorer, then go to **File -> Save MyPlugin.sln As...** and name it e.g. `Plugins.sln`. Save it into your creator dir, **above** the plugin's dir. This solution will be shared by each of your plugins, making all projects easily available in the same Visual Studio window.

 You should have this dir tree:

    <VaM dir>\
        ↳ Custom\
            ↳ Scripts\
                ↳ CreatorName\
                    ↳ Plugins.sln
                    ↳ MyPlugin\
                        ↳ MyPlugin.csproj
                          ...

For a new (second) plugin, make a new copy of the `NewPlugin` under your creator dir, rename it and run the setup script as above. In Visual Studio, add the new plugin's .csproj file to the solution from **File -> Add -> Existing Project...**

## Packaging a new release version

While you can use VaM's package creator, the included `package.sh` script hides the source files (under src/), leaving only the .cslist selectable in-game.

If you need to package files other than the .cslist and src/, feel free to customize the `package.sh` on a project by project basis.

Finally, customize each project's `meta.json` to have the correct license info, description info, promotional link, file listing etc. for the plugin.

## Additional recommended tools

- JetBrains DotPeek or similar - for browsing decompiled VaM code
- CodeMaid extension for Visual Studio - keep your code style consistent and clean
- [vam-dev-tools](https://github.com/acidbubbles/vam-devtools) by acidbubbles

## Got questions?

Head to the `#scripting` channel in the official Virt-A-Mate Discord.

Commit message:

add template license, template readme, update readme and scripts

README.md, after:

# Virt-A-Mate New Plugin Template

This guide assumes you are somewhat familiar with a Linux terminal.

The template consist of:

- a .csproj file
- a .cslist file (which is used to load the plugin in VaM)
- an src/ dir and template .cs files for the plugin code
- a template meta.json file
- template LICENSE and README.md files to accompany the plugin source

There's also a new plugin project setup script, and a plugin resource var packaging script (replacing the VaM package creator).

## Requirements

- [Ubuntu on WSL](https://ubuntu.com/wsl)
- [Visual Studio Community 2019](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
- [.NET 4.6.1 Developer Pack](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=49978)
- [Virt-A-Mate](https://www.patreon.com/meshedvr/posts)

## Usage

First, clone (or download and unzip) this repository.

Create a dir with your creator name under the `Scripts` dir. You should have:

    VaM/Custom/Scripts/CreatorName

Copy and paste the `NewPlugin` dir as well as the scripts `setup.sh` and `package.sh` from this repository under your creator name's dir.

Rename the `NewPlugin` dir to how you want your plugin to be named. Let's call it `MyPlugin` from now on.

Run the setup script from Ubuntu/WSL terminal. It substitutes your creator name and plugin name in the project files. It also puts your creator name (the name of the plugin's parent directory) into the LICENSE file - feel free to replace that if for some reason you don't want to release the source code under the MIT license.

    cd <path to VaM>/Custom/Scripts/CreatorName
    ./setup.sh MyPlugin

The `<path to VaM>` is most likely something like `/mnt/<drive letter>/VaM`.

Finally, open the .csproj file in **Visual Studio** - and you're good to go. When you have created something worth developing further and perhaps releasing, initialize a git repo in the plugin dir (and host it in GitHub).

## Multiple plugins setup

In Visual Studio, select the solution (the topmost item) in the Solution Explorer, then go to **File -> Save MyPlugin.sln As...** and name it e.g. `Plugins.sln`. Save it into your creator dir, **above** the plugin's dir. This solution will be shared by each of your plugins, making all projects easily available in the same Visual Studio window.

 You should have this dir tree:

    <VaM dir>\
        ↳ Custom\
            ↳ Scripts\
                ↳ CreatorName\
                    ↳ Plugins.sln
                    ↳ MyPlugin\
                        ↳ MyPlugin.csproj
                          ...

For a new (second) plugin, make a new copy of the `NewPlugin` under your creator dir, rename it and run the setup script as above. In Visual Studio, add the new plugin's .csproj file to the solution from **File -> Add -> Existing Project...**

## Packaging a new release version

While you can use VaM's package creator, the included `package.sh` script hides the source files (under src/), leaving only the .cslist selectable in-game.

If you need to package files other than the .cslist and src/, feel free to customize the `package.sh` on a project by project basis.

Finally, customize each project's `meta.json` to have the correct license info, description info, promotional link, file listing etc. for the plugin.

## Additional recommended tools

- JetBrains DotPeek or similar - for browsing decompiled VaM code
- CodeMaid extension for Visual Studio - keep your code style consistent and clean
- [vam-dev-tools](https://github.com/acidbubbles/vam-devtools) by acidbubbles

## Got questions?

Head to the `#scripting` channel in the official Virt-A-Mate Discord.
